<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Activities</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="activitiesh1">
  <span id="page127b">Page 127b</span>
  <h1 id="activitiesh1">Activities</h1>
  <section id="surface" aria-label="Surface Activity">
    <p><em>Times of activity on the surface of the ground</em>.&#8212;The kangaroo rat is essentially a nocturnal
mammal, so far as its activity above ground is concerned. Rarely has the writer
seen members of this genus voluntarily emerge from their burrows in the daytime.
On a clear day in early spring, he saw members of the species <span class="taxon">Dipodomys nitratoides</span>
leave their burrows as many as seven minutes before sunset.</p>
    <p>Better to describe this diurnal activity, the following field notes of the writer for
<time datetime="1938-02-23">February 23, 1938</time> are quoted: &#8220;This evening reset my can-traps, using the same bait
(rolled oats). It was close to sundown when I started putting out traps. While setting
them, I heard a trap snap about 150 yards behind me. I went back and found I had
caught a live adult <span class="taxon">Dipodomys nitratoides nitratoides</span>. The sun was about five minutes
from setting when the trap went off; I had set the trap not more than five minutes previously.
Continued putting out traps, and just as the sun was setting I caught another
of this species. By the time I had finished putting out all my twenty traps (about ten
minutes past sundown), I had caught a total of four rats.&#8221; This abnormal activity may
have resulted from damage to food stores by heavy rains of a few days previously.</p>
    <p><span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni tularensis</span> appears to be more strictly nocturnal than
<span class="taxon"><abbr>D.</abbr> nitratoides</span>.
Once, when the writer watched adjacent burrows of the two species, <span class="taxon">nitratoides</span>
emerged five to twelve minutes earlier; even then the earliest <span class="taxon">nitratoides</span> emerged six
minutes past sundown.</p>
    <p>Under normal conditions probably light intensity is the most important single factor
governing the time of emergence of <span class="taxon">tularensis</span>. Repeated observations showed that on
nights when the moon was not visible, adult rats usually emerged from their burrows
as soon as it became quite dark after the sun had set. On the contrary, when the moon
was full, or near that stage, and shining brightly at the time time the sun set, they did not
appear on the surface until the moon had almost disappeared in the west, even though
this was in the early morning hours.</p>
    <span id="page128">Page 128</span>
    <p>On one moonlight night, a kangaroo rat burrow was watched from sundown until
midnight; no mammal was seen to emerge. At 4 o’clock, about one hour before the moon
was to set, watch was again resumed. About 20 minutes before the moon disappeared
behind the hills to the west, the drumming sometimes made by kangaroo rats before
emerging was heard. One and one-half minutes later a kangaroo rat emerged and began
its foraging. On nights when the moon is considerably less than full, or when it is partly
obscured by clouds, activity usually goes on as it does on nights when the moon is not
visible. Evidently light intensity on a clear, full moonlight night is above the maximum
tolerated by this mammal for normal emergence from its burrow.</p>
    <p>The location of the burrow also affects the time of emergence of the occupant; when
under a tree, beside a rock, or otherwise situated so that it may be shaded from the light
of the sun or moon, the animal comes out earlier than from unshaded burrows. For
example, a burrow under the east edge of a rock outcrop, or on the east slope of a hill
would be first to come in the shadow of the setting sun, so that the minimum of darkness
required by the occupant for emergence would, on a moonless night, occur earlier
than it would at a burrow situated in the open or under the western edge of a rock
outcrop. The occupant of one burrow at the base of a medium-size willow tree emerged,
on the average, ten minutes earlier than did the occupant of an adjacent burrow in the
open beyond the shadow of the willow. It was darker under the willow than it was in
the open; the tree cast a definite shadow from the reflected rays of the sun which had
dropped behind the horizon. After emerging, the rat moved about freely under the
willow, but did not venture beyond the shadow until after a kangaroo rat in the burrow
in the open had emerged and begun foraging.</p>
    <p>On moonless nights, activity above ground in the open usually begins between 20
and 30 minutes past sundown; the occupants of 16 out of 21 burrows watched under such
conditions first emerged at this time. Although some individuals may intermittently
forage above ground throughout a dark night, repeated observations have shown that,
as a rule, the majority of individuals forage above ground in two fairly well-defined
periods in the early part of the night. For about 40 minutes after their first emergence a
majority of the rats spend most of the time on the surface, unless they become alarmed
and enter their burrows, where they remain for indefinite periods. After this forty-minute
period, most of them enter burrows and remain there for as long as four hours.
When they again emerge, the period of activity varies. Sometimes, it amounts to only
a few minutes; at other times they are on the surface intermittently for as long as four
hours, but generally after the second emergence, they are inactive for the remainder
of the night.</p>
    <p>On nights when a bright moon is absent for only a short time in the early morning
hours, activity is concentrated in the period of greatest darkness. If the moon rises
late, causing the period of greatest darkness to come in the early part of the night, activity
is apparently no more concentrated then than it is in the early parts of nights
that are without moonlight at any time.</p>
    <p>Immature animals react to light conditions differently than do adults. They tend
to be more erratic, and less cautious, often foraging in the moonlight when the adults
do not venture forth.</p>
    <p>Weather conditions also influence the time of activity above ground. Rain fell during
all or part of three nights when observations were made. No surface activity was
observed during the rains or immediately following them, even though the night in each
case was moonless. When a light rain stopped in the early part of the night, the occupant
of a burrow I was watching emerged only after the slick surface film of mud
about the vicinity of the burrow entrance had dried. The evidence that the Tulare
kangaroo rat is inactive on the surface during rain or heavy fog is supported by the fact
that out of more than 300 trap nights when such conditions prevailed, no kangaroo
rats were taken. <a href="litcited.xhtml#vorhies_and_taylor-1922">Vorhies and Taylor</a> (1922, <abbr>p.</abbr> 13) noted that
<span class="taxon">Dipodomys spectabilis
spectabilis</span> was inactive above ground on rainy nights, or when the ground was wet or
covered with snow, but <a href="litcited.xhtml#dale-1939">Dale</a> (1939, <abbr>p.</abbr> 716) found that
<span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni saxatilis</span>
was sometimes active on rainy nights, and he several times saw its tracks in the snow.</p>
  </section>
  <span id="page129">Page 129</span>
  <section id="subsurface" aria-label="Sub-surface Activity">
    <p><em>Sub-surface activity</em>.&#8212;The Tulare kangaroo rat normally spends approximately
twenty-three hours of each day within the confines of its burrow, but in a prolonged
rainy spell, it may spend several consecutive days and nights underground.</p>
    <p>These animals are more or less active within their burrows at all times of the year.
The characteristic thumping made by members of this genus occasionally can be heard
if one scrapes lightly around the burrow entrance. This thumping is more often heard
after night has fallen, but at times it can be heard in the daytime, indicating that they
may be awake, and more or less active, at all hours of the day.</p>
    <p>The many plugged tunnels within the burrow system are evidence, also, that these
animals carry on a certain amount of sub-surface activity, other than that involved
in the eating of stored food. On rainy nights, when the rats do not come out, they often
push fresh earth, mixed with food refuse, from the entrances to burrows.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="foraging" class="pbb" aria-label="Foraging">
    <p><em>Foraging</em>.&#8212;After first emerging from its burrow, the kangaroo rat usually remains
for a short time close to the entrance. Then it takes alarm easily, and often, for no apparent
reason, will make one or make one or more dashes into the burrow. When finally assured
that it is in no immediate danger, it begins its regular surface activity.</p>
    <p>Where the burrow entrance is on a relatively level place, the animal forages in all
directions from the main burrow, but if the burrow is located on a steep hillside, almost
all foraging occurs on or above the contour on which the lowest burrow entrance is
situated. The advantage of such a foraging habit probably is that when danger threatens,
the animal can reach its burrow much more rapidly than if it had to run uphill.</p>
    <span id="page130">Page 130</span>
    <p>Usually the animal forages along one of the numerous surface runways radiating from
the burrow entrance, but often it leaves the runway and gathers food at some distance to
one side. A considerable amount of food is gleaned from the ground, especially in the
late summer and fall. In the season when grass is ripening, most of the foraging consists
of gathering the heads of grasses. To do this, the rat usually stands on its hind feet,
gathers in a head of grass with its fore feet, and clips the stem with its teeth. It then
settles down on its haunches and stuffs the material into its cheek pouches. Where the
grass head is beyond reach, the stem may be cut off at a convenient height, and the head
removed from the fallen culm.</p>
    <p>Where kangaroo rats are abundant, their activity sometimes is sufficient to cause a
decided change in the vegetative type about the burrows. In one area near Panoche,
the grass on a hillside had given way around some of the burrows to a growth of red-stem
filaree (<span class="taxon">Erodium cicutarium</span>), so that the location of these burrows could be easily discerned
from a considerable distance. The total area of cover so changed was slight,
however, compared with the area that was unchanged.</p>
    <p>Most of the seeds gathered are taken into the burrow, but some are eaten on the spot
or are carried near the burrow and eaten just outside the entrance. Almost all of the
succulent material gathered is eaten outside the burrow.</p>
    <p>This kangaroo rat also gathers food from piles of refuse found around the entrances
to the dens of the black harvester ant, <span class="taxon">Veromessor pergandei</span> (Mayr). The material
carried to the surface by the ants often contains large amounts of seeds that the
kangaroo rat can use as food. Plant materials found in these piles include the seeds of
<span class="taxon">Bromus rubens</span>, <span class="taxon">Bromus mollis</span>, <span class="taxon">Lupinus</span> (two species),
<span class="taxon">Lotus</span>, <span class="taxon">Trifolium</span> and <span class="taxon">Erodium cicutarium</span>
and the flowering heads of <span class="taxon">Lastarriaea chilensis</span>. All these materials were
found also inside the kangaroo rat burrows, and most of them probably are used as food.</p>
    <p>Most of the insects found within the burrows of the kangaroo rat are sluggish and are
easily captured, but some surface-dwelling insects, on the contrary, are exceedingly
active, and to capture them, the kangaroo rat must act quickly and with dexterity.</p>
    <p>Slow-moving insects, such as ground beetles, are merely picked up with the front paws
and either stuffed into the cheek pouches, or eaten on the spot. In capturing rapidly
moving insects, such as fluttering moths, the mammal follows the moving insect with
quick, short hops, all the while reaching out with its front paws to grasp the insect when
it comes within reach. Once a moth attracted to a flood light, landed on the ground
about two feet from a rat. Immediately, the rat dashed for the moth by a series of
short, quick hops, and appeared to pick up the insect. The moth escaped, apparently
somewhat injured, and went fluttering over the surface of the ground. The kangaroo
rat followed in hot pursuit and several times seemed to have captured the prey, only to
have it escape again. After chasing it five or six feet, the rat finally captured the moth,
hopped to the entrance of its burrow, nibbled at the insect for a few seconds and then
entered the burrow, carrying the captured prey. In the laboratory live moths, whose
wings had been clipped, were fed the captives. When a rat hopped within reach of a
fluttering moth, it appeared to gather it in with both front paws and bite it immediately,
although the movements were so rapid that it was difficult to tell exactly how the capture
was accomplished. Several times the caged rats captured moths fluttering along two or
three inches from the floor.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="bathing" aria-label="Dust Bathing">
    <p><em>Dust bathing</em>.&#8212;Almost every occupied kangaroo rat burrow has one or more places
nearby where the animal can dust bathe. If a bush or ledge of rock is available, a dust
bowl may be under it, but often the bowl is in the open along a trail or beside an entrance
to the burrow. The dust bowls are of irregular shape and size, generally longer than
wide, and, if much used, they are somewhat cupped toward the center (<a href="plate1.xhtml#h" title="Jump to Plate 1h"><abbr>pl.</abbr> 1h</a>). In
some areas the soil is of such texture that almost any unvegetated spot can be used for
dust bathing, and there is no specific place for this purpose. Where the soil is full of
small rocks or is of clayey texture, the loose dirt thrown out of the burrow is used for
dust bathing.</p>
    <span id="page131">Page 131</span>
    <p>Dust bathing keeps the hair dry and sleek by removing excess oil secreted by the
dermal gland, and by removing excess moisture that may be on the fur; when animals
in a cage cannot dust bathe, their fur becomes matted, as though wet, especially around
the gland. The dermal gland is an elliptical, granular-surfaced area, about 6 <abbr>mm.</abbr> long
and 3 <abbr>mm.</abbr> wide, running parallel to the axis of the body just behind the
mid-line of the back. My observations tend to support <a href="litcited.xhtml#bailey-1931">Bailey’s</a> suggestion (1931, <abbr>p.</abbr> 248)
that this functions as an oil gland for dressing the fur. This gland probably is important
in keeping the hair and skin soft and pliable in the dry surroundings in which
the kangaroo rats live. Bailey suggests also that the gland produces an odor by which
individuals recognize one another. The secretion may be rubbed off the hair at the
entrance of the burrow.</p>
    <p>In the wild, the animals bathe at various times in the night, but usually only after
they have foraged for awhile. This is especially apparent in the spring and winter,
when often there is a slight dew on the grass and their coats are dampened by it. At
these times, they make frequent trips to the dust bowls as they go about their work of
gathering food. In dust bathing the animals roll on their hips or shoulders, but never
so that they lie entirely on their sides or backs; either the front or rear parts of their
bodies always remain upright. When they roll over on their shoulders, they usually
push themselves forward with their hind feet, plowing up the dust with the sides of their
heads and shoulders. When they roll over on their hips, they stretch their hind legs out
behind. Occasionally, when dust bathing, they lie on their bellies and stretch both hind
legs straight backward.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>



































</html>
