<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Breeding</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="breedingh1">
  <span id="page135b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="135b"/>
  <h1 id="breedingh1">Breeding</h1>
  <p>Breeding occurs from February to August, inclusive. A specimen in the Museum of
Vertebrate Zoology, taken on February 21, contained 4 embryos 7 <abbr>mm.</abbr> in length. This
is the earliest breeding record for the subspecies <span class="taxon">tularensis</span> available. Pregnant females
have been taken in every month from March to August. The latest breeding record
available for <span class="taxon">tularensis</span> is that of a female with three embryos, captured August 27 near
Lost Hills, Kern County. A specimen of <span class="latin">Dipodomys heermanni jolonensis</span> in the Museum
of Vertebrate Zoology contained 4 four-millimeter embryos when taken on <time datetime="1918-11-27">November
27, 1918</time>. This is the latest breeding record available for the <span class="latin">heermanni</span> group; the
earliest available record is from a specimen of <span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni saxatilis</span>, now
in the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, that was taken <time datetime="1929-01-05">January 5, 1929</time>.</p>
  <p>The highest percentage of pregnancy seemingly occurs in April. Of 11 adult female
specimens taken in April, 9, or 82 per cent, were pregnant. Females breed before they
attain adult size. One specimen in the Museum, recorded as having had three embryos,
weighed only 57.7 grams, that is, about four-fifths that of a normal adult. Examination
of its skull proved that it was immature.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
