<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Burrow Systems</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="burrowh1">
  <span id="page119b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="119b"/>
  <h1 id="burrowh1">Burrow Systems</h1>
  <section id="structure" aria-label="Burrow Structure">
    <p><em>Structure</em>.&#8212;The Tulare kangaroo rat lives in burrows, which it digs, but these are
often overlooked by the casual observer because there usually are no conspicuous permanent
mounds of earth at the entrances (<a href="plate1.xhtml#a" title="Jump to Plate 1a"><abbr>pl.</abbr> 1a</a>). This is especially true on steep hillsides.
There, burrows may often be detected only by the presence of a few entrance
holes in the center of a small area where the vegetation is sparse, or where the vegetation
differs from that of the surrounding area. A newly dug tunnel, however, may have a
relatively large mound of earth at its entrance (<a href="plate1.xhtml#b" title="Jump to Plate 1b"><abbr>pl.</abbr> 1b</a>), but when they are on steep
hillsides, such mounds are soon obliterated by erosion. On level areas a slight, relatively
permanent mound is built up over a period of years by the soil and food-refuse thrown
<span id="page120" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="120"/>
out of the burrow. There usually are no large mounds, even in level areas, because this
rodent does not dig extensive tunnels as do some members of the genus. The average
burrow excavated had about 35 feet of open tunnel, from two to three and one-half inches
in diameter, with a few enlarged side pockets and chambers.</p>
    <p>Burrows of <span class="taxon">tularensis</span> can be classified as main and subsidiary, according to their
structure and use. Seventeen main and 14 subsidiary burrow systems were excavated,
seven at Corral Hollow and 24 near Panoche. Main burrows, in which the rats ordinarily
spend the daylight hours, are used for resting, and as places in which to store food and
rear young. As far as could be determined, one rat occupies each main burrow. The
direction of the main tunnel seems not to be determined by the slope of the hill; in some
burrows it tends to follow the contours, and in others it follows the slope. The main
burrow is of simple construction, from six to 20 inches under the surface, and consisting
usually of one main tunnel extending the entire length of the system with numerous loops
and side branches, some of which end blindly with enlarged ends. It is in these that foods
usually are stored and nests built. Other side branches inter-connect, and eventually
lead to open entrance holes. Usually there are several tunnels dug from below to within
one-half inch of the surface through which the animal can quickly dig or break to the
surface. Joining the open tunnels are numerous old tunnels and pockets which are filled
with soil mixed with hulled seeds and other refuse. Apparently the dirt used to plug
these abandoned tunnels is that excavated in making new tunnels. Not all open tunnels
are used; numerous side branches were found to contain old, undisturbed spider webs.
Most of the burrows have one tunnel leading steeply downward to a greater depth than
any other in the system. Such tunnels always end blindly and are without enlarged
pockets. In one burrow excavated, such a side branch descended 41 inches below the
surface. No regular use appears to be made of them, as the tunnels leading to such
depths are usually obstructed with old, undisturbed cobwebs, and never were they found
to contain nest material or stored food. It seems probable that they function as drains
in times of heavy rainfall.</p>
    <p>All main burrows excavated had a two-story arrangement of tunnels, except three
which had a three-story arrangement. In contrast to this, Grinnell (<a href="litcited.xhtml#grinnell-1932"><time>1932</time>, <abbr>p.</abbr> 310</a>), in
excavating three burrows near Panoche, found that <span class="taxon">Dipodomys ingens</span> constructs a
relatively simple, one-story system of tunnels, although the single burrow of <span class="taxon">ingens</span> that
I excavated had a three-story arrangement that branched and re-joined in a more complicated
manner than any of the 31 excavated burrows of <span class="taxon">tularensis</span>.</p>
    <p>Main burrows of tularensis have from one to six entrances; three or four is the usual
number. A two-acre plot contained 41 separate burrows, 5 with 1 entrance each, 18
with 2, 9 with 3, 7 with 4, and 2 with 5. Burrows having only one or two entrances probably
were used for escape or temporary refuge. Grinnell
(<a href="litcited.xhtml#grinnell-1932"><time>1932</time>, <abbr>p.</abbr> 307</a>) on three one-acre
plots found 30 burrows of <span class="taxon">Dipodomys ingens</span> with 2 holes each, 18 with 3 holes, 16 with 4
holes, and 7 &#8220;singles&#8221;. Grinnell ruled out every single sequestered burrow that showed
no evidence of being occupied, while in my survey of burrows of <span class="taxon">tularensis</span>, all burrows
were counted, as my experience with this species has shown that even what on the surface
appear to be subsidiary escape burrows, may, in fact, be occupied. As a rule, all
entrances are left open during the daytime, although a burrow on some days may have
one or more entrances plugged from the inside. One or two entrances are used more
frequently than any of the others. The openings thus used are those out of which dirt
and food refuse are thrown.</p>
    <p>Diameters of 31 main tunnel-entrances range from 42 to 81 mm, the average being 62
mm. As a rule, the more nearly vertical burrows are smaller in diameter. The openings
into gently slanting tunnels usually were slightly higher than wide, although sometimes
the reverse was true; openings into the more vertical tunnels usually were nearly circular.
The greatest variation from a true circle was found in the largest opening, which
measured 81 mm. high by 71 mm. wide.</p>
    <span id="page122" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="122"/>
    <p>The main entrances usually have a sloping tunnel leading down into the burrow system.
In addition to the main entrances, at least one of which is usually more or less
central, and one peripheral, in relation to the subsurface network of tunnels, there
generally are additional entrances toward the periphery of the system. In every main
burrow excavated, at least one entrance had a vertical tunnel from three to seven inches
long leading to it. The vertical tunnel connected with the more nearly horizontal
tunnel of the remainder of the burrow. These entrances never had dirt thrown from
them, and were often more or less concealed under bushes or in grass. It was from such
entrances, rather than from conspicuous main entrances, that the kangaroo rats often
first made their appearance at night, although after their first appearance they usually
used one of the main entrances in their trips to and from the burrow. This type of entrance
probably should more properly be called an &#8220;exit&#8221;, as it is used for this purpose
much more often than as an entrance to the burrow.</p>
    <p>The entrances to burrows often are shielded by large rocks or shrubs (see <a href="plate1.xhtml#c" title="Jump to Plate 1c"><abbr>pl.</abbr> 1c</a>).
One advantage of having a rock at an entrance is that if a rat is pursued by an enemy
which it momentarily eludes by dashing under the rock, the rat can leave unobserved at
the opposite end of the burrow while, say, a coyote is busy digging on the other side.
A bush would similarly serve as a shield, but probably not quite so effectively. Once
while I was excavating a main burrow, the occupant ran from it and disappeared down
a subsidiary burrow whose entrance and exit were on opposite sides of a two-foot high
rock. When I began digging at the entrance to the subsidiary burrow, the rat dashed
from the exit and ran to another burrow. Because of my height I was able to look over
the rock and see the animal as it left the burrow, but had a coyote or some other relatively
small animal been digging at the entrance, the rock would have blocked its view
so that the rat probably could have escaped unobserved.</p>
    <p>Subsidiary burrows have a less extensive tunnel system, and are simpler in construction
than main burrows. They usually have one, two, or three entrances opening into
a single, relatively straight tunnel that may have one or more side branches. These
side branches, as in the main burrows, sometimes loop back to rejoin the main tunnel,
or may lead to an opening, or, as is usually the case, to a chamber just below the surface.
These burrows ordinarily lack the deep, blind tunnels found in main burrows, but they
often have enlarged side pockets. Apparently subsidiary burrows serve only for temporary
refuges or as &#8220;duck-ins&#8221; when the animals become alarmed while away from their
main burrows. None of the 14 subsidiary burrows excavated contained nest material,
but most of them contained small amounts of food.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="surface" aria-label="Surface Runways">
    <p><em>Surface runways</em>.&#8212;Outside the main burrow a network of easily discernible surface
runways radiate to subsidiary burrows and burrows of other individuals (<a href="plate1.xhtml#d" title="Jump to Plate 1d"><abbr>pl.</abbr> 1d</a>). The
floor of one is 2 to 2&#189; inches wide, hard and usually bare of vegetation. If the area has
been heavily grazed by sheep, rats utilize the sheep trails. In that event there are
only a few &#8220;rat made&#8221; runs around a burrow. In areas thickly populated by kangaroo
rats, it is often impossible to tell just how many of the surface runways belong to any
one burrow system, because all burrows, whether inhabited or not, are connected by a
maze of surface runs. In isolated burrows the runs generally extend from 30 to 60 feet
from the main burrow, with perhaps one or more runs extending for 150 or more feet
to connect with other networks of runways about other burrow systems.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="location" aria-label="Location of Burrows">
    <p><em>Location of burrows</em>.&#8212;The Tulare kangaroo rat appears to prefer as a site for its burrow
a place where the soil is well drained and of such a nature that it can be easily dug,
where scattered rocks and shrubs are present, and where grass is short and sparse enough
not to hinder locomotion. At Panoche this rodent was most abundant on south-facing
hillslopes. There, as a result of direct exposure to the sun, the soil was drier and the
cover of grass more sparse than elsewhere. It was also noted at Panoche and Corral
Hollow that kangaroo rats were most abundant on the steeper hillslopes. Many of
<span id="page123" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="123"/>
these slopes, because of the intensive grazing by sheep coupled with the foraging of
kangaroo rats, by autumn lacked cover other than scattered <span class="taxon">Atriplex</span> bushes and a few
large fragments of sandstone. At Corral Hollow one steep hillslope approximately one-fourth
acre in area in one night yielded six rats caught in live traps, although the slope
was practically devoid of vegetation. Holes of kangaroo rats were scattered so thickly
over the face of the slope that it was difficult to distinguish the outlines of individual
burrows. At the top of the slope, there was a relatively flat area with a cover of considerable
grass. Observation at night showed that rats living on the hillside gathered
food largely on this level area.</p>
    <p>The Tulare kangaroo rat occurs also in large numbers where short grass is the only
ground cover present. Therefore, shrubs or rocks, although used by the rats, are not
required.</p>
    <p>In parts of Panoche Valley, <span class="taxon">tularensis</span> was found only on the hillsides; the more gently
sloping areas extending down to the creek were occupied by the larger <span class="taxon">Dipodomys ingens</span>
(see <a href="plate1.xhtml#e" title="Jump to Plate 1e"><abbr>pl.</abbr> 1e</a>). The line of demarcation between the habitats of the two species at the
base of the steep slope was so distinct that traps set 50 feet to either side of it yielded
only one species. At Corral Hollow, where <span class="taxon">ingens</span> did not occur, <span class="taxon">tularensis</span> occupied the
level areas as well as the hillslopes. This suggests that at Panoche the Tulare kangaroo
rat was absent from the level plain because the larger <span class="taxon">ingens</span> crowded it out, not entirely
because of its preference for the hillside.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="nests" aria-label="Nests and Places of Rest">
    <p><em>Nests and Places of Rest</em>.&#8212;Of 9 nests found in the 17 main burrows excavated, 6 occupied
the blind ends of the deeper tunnels, two were in pockets or enlargements in the sides of
main tunnels, and in one rocky area a nest was found on the surface among rocks under
a large boulder. Usually, the nest chamber is centrally located in the burrow system,
from 12 to 30 inches below the surface of the ground. Depth probably is determined
largely by soil conditions; the nest chambers in burrows are nearer the surface in rocky
soil than in easily worked soil. The chambers are of various sizes and shapes, most of
them being ovoid in shape and about 5 inches wide by 6 inches long by 4 inches high.
Every nest chamber found had only one entrance.</p>
    <p>Nest material, which covers the floor of the chamber to a depth of about one inch,
consists of fine grass stems, fine grass roots and husks from grass seeds. The top and
sides of the chamber are lined with loose material or left bare. Usually the husks of
grass seeds are next to the floor where they support the grass stems and roots. The
writer found the husks always moist, whereas the grass stems were usually dry, and the
fine roots lining the nest quite dry. Possibly the husks absorb moisture that might
otherwise be absorbed by the grass stems and roots were they placed on the moist soil.
Occupied nests made of fresh material were found only in April and May. All nests
examined in the autumn had become moistened throughout and showed no sign of recent
occupation. Apparently the nest is used only for rearing young. Except when there
are small young, the animals probably rest on the loose earth of the floor of the burrow
or one of its branches or side pockets. The mild winters that occur in the range of this
race, together with the insulating effect of the soil over the burrows, would tend to allow
the temperature within the burrow to remain relatively uniform and comfortable.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
