<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Economic Importance</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/table.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="economich1">
  <span id="page125">Page 125</span>
  <h1 id="economich1">Economic Importance</h1>
  <p>Both areas studied were heavily grazed by sheep. Forage was sparse, parallel sheep
trails a few feet apart lined the hillsides, and preventable erosion had set in at many
places. Although the foraging activity of <span class="taxon">tularensis</span> often noticeably depleted the vegetation
along the surface runs and in small areas about the entrances to the burrows, it
appeared that in the areas studied the grazing of sheep and their trampling out of plants
was the major factor in holding the areas to their present low carrying capacity for livestock.</p>
  <table id="table1" class="style1" aria-labelledby="table1caption">
    <caption id="table1caption"><span class="captitle">Table 1</span>.&#8212;Plant seeds found within the burrows of <span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni tularensis</span></caption>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">NAME</th>
      <th scope="col">TOTAL AMOUNT<br/>(grams)</th>
      <th scope="col">NUMBER OF BURROWS<br/>IN WHICH FOUND</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Bromus rubens</span></th>
      <td>1739<span class="hidden">.</span>&#8199;</td>
      <td>13</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Bromus mollis</span></th>
      <td>&#8199;186.7</td>
      <td>&#8199;4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Avena fatua</span></th>
      <td>&#8199;103.2</td>
      <td>&#8199;3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Lupinus</span> (3 species)</th>
      <td>&#8199;&#8199;63.0</td>
      <td>&#8199;2</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Lotus</span> (2 species)</th>
      <td>&#8199;&#8199;29.4</td>
      <td>&#8199;3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Trifolium</span> (2 species)</th>
      <td>&#8199;&#8199;32.1</td>
      <td>&#8199;3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Calandrinia caulescens</span></th>
      <td>&#8199;&#8199;&#8199;7.3</td>
      <td>&#8199;4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Erodium cicutarium</span></th>
      <td>&#8199;863.5</td>
      <td>15</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Eriogonum</span> <abbr>sp.</abbr></th>
      <td>Trace</td>
      <td>&#8199;5</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
  <table id="table2" class="style1" aria-labelledby="table2caption">
    <caption id="table2caption"><span class="captitle">Table 2</span>.&#8212;Plant material, other than seeds, found within burrows of <span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni tularensis</span></caption>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">NAME OF PLANT</th>
      <th scope="col">TYPE OF MATERIAL</th>
      <th scope="col">NUMBER OF<br/>BURROWS IN<br/>WHICH FOUND</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Juniperus californicus</span></th>
      <td>Leaves</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Bromus rubens</span></th>
      <td>Stems and green heads</td>
      <td>3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Avena fatua</span></th>
      <td>Stems and green heads</td>
      <td>1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Lastarriaea chilensis</span></th>
      <td>Flowering heads (dry)</td>
      <td>9</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Eriogonum angulorum</span></th>
      <td>Flowering heads</td>
      <td>4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Eriogonum fasciculatum</span></th>
      <td>Leaves</td>
      <td>3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Atriplex</span> <abbr>sp.</abbr></th>
      <td>Leaves and stems</td>
      <td>6</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Lepidium nitidum</span></th>
      <td>Green pods and leaves</td>
      <td>7</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Erodium</span> <abbr>sp.</abbr></th>
      <td>Leaves and Stems</td>
      <td>7</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Euphorbia serpyllifolia</span></th>
      <td>Leaves and Stems</td>
      <td>2</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Compositae</th>
      <td>Fresh immature heads</td>
      <td>3</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"><span class="taxon">Gutierrezia californica</span></th>
      <td>Stems, leaves and flowers</td>
      <td>8</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
  <p>Because these rats are able to exist in large numbers where vegetation is sparse,
heavy grazing of an area by livestock may not reduce much, if any, the carrying capacity
of the area for kangaroo rats. If every bit of forage produced were needed by livestock,
then the cutting of some of the available green forage and the harvesting of seeds by
kangaroo rats might affect the carrying capacity of the area for livestock enough to
make the rats of adverse economic importance. If so, the competition offered by kangaroo
rats would seemingly increase as the acreage necessary to support each head of
<span id="page126">Page 126</span>
livestock increased on an already overgrazed area. On a properly grazed range it is
unlikely that the rats would decrease the carrying capacity of the range for livestock.</p>
  <p>According to old settlers, in the area west of Porterville kangaroo rats were abundant
before it was intensely cultivated and irrigated. Now only occasional rats are found
there; one must go west, beyond the area of intense cultivation, to find kangaroo rats
in abundance. The damage that they may do to cultivated crops is negligible, except
where crops are grown adjacent to, or surrounded by, uncultivated land occupied by
them, in which case the rats living there have access to the crops. For example, in a
dry-farmed wheat field at the mouth of Caliente Creek Wash, Kern County, Dixon (MS),
in <time datetime="1918-05">May, 1918</time>, found <span class="taxon">tularensis</span> to be gathering the heads of growing wheat, the seeds of
which were in the &#8220;milk&#8221; stage. He found these rats doing much damage, although not
as much as jackrabbits, which also had invaded the field. The two kinds of mammals
together destroyed at least 40 acres of one field in three weeks. Dixon further states
that kangaroo rats continued to cut wheat stalks and shell out the grain after it had
ripened, although the jackrabbits then had ceased to eat it (see <a href="burrow.xhtml#plate1g"><abbr>pl.</abbr> 1g</a>).</p>
  <p>Harmful effects of the activity of <span class="taxon">tularensis</span> probably are partly compensated for by
its eating insects that are destructive to cultivated crops. During the outbreak of
grasshoppers in the western part of the San Joaquin Valley in the spring of 1939, this
kangaroo rat was observed to eat considerable numbers of this pest. In this instance,
the kangaroo rats probably had no appreciable effect in limiting the insect population,
but at other times the animal may be one of the important natural checks which help
prevent outbreaks of this kind.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
