<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Escape</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="escapeh1">
  <span id="page134c" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="134c"/>
  <h1 id="escapeh1">Methods of Escape From Enemies</h1>
  <p>To escape enemies, the Tulare kangaroo rat depends primarily on its agility and its
ability to run rapidly. Usually it maintains from one to four escape burrows in addition
to its main burrow. If pressed by some enemy, it normally runs to, and darts down, the
nearest of these burrows in an surprisingly short time. Occasionally, if the animal is
<span id="page135" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="135"/>
hard pressed, it may enter the burrow of some other individual, should such a burrow be
more convenient than one of its own. Usually, the owner of the burrow, if at home,
forcibly ejected the intruder within 40 seconds from the time of his entrance. This
length of time is probably sufficient to convince any pursuer that he has been foiled
and to permit the rat to emerge in safety.</p>
  <p>No individual of this subspecies has been observed to venture farther than forty
feet from a burrow of its own, or one of some other individual, although trails connect
burrows as many as one hundred and fifty feet apart, and lead one to infer that, at times,
the rats venture farther than forty feet from a burrow.</p>
  <p>If a kangaroo rat is inside a burrow while some enemy is also inside or is digging from
without, the rat may dig or break through the thin crust separating some of the tunnels
from the surface, and elude the pursuer. Several times, while excavating burrows, the
occupants escaped in this manner, instead of leaving by one of leaving by one of several open entrances
that were only a few feet distant.</p>
  <p>Another method of escape is to &#8220;freeze.&#8221; Once I released an adult rat in the
daytime, and began to pursue it. Previously the entrances to all nearby burrows had been
plugged. The rat appeared utterly confused, and darted first in one direction, and then
in another, in a vain attempt to locate an entrance to a burrow. With the writer some
eight or ten feet behind it in hot pursuit, it suddenly seemingly vanished. When located
it was lying flat in the grass, its body tilted slightly to one side, and its tail outstretched.
The only movement was that of rapid panting, and the wiggling of vibrissae. In this
position the rat was difficult to see; the color of its body blended well with that of the
dry grass in which it was hiding. It was not noticed until the observer was within six
feet of it, and then the movement of the body, caused by breathing, first attracted his
attention. The rat allowed the observer to walk up quietly and place his foot within
three inches of its back, before it darted off in a bee-line to a burrow about fifty feet
away, on the periphery of the group whose entrances had been plugged. The animal
apparently had become oriented while lying quietly, and it knew just where to run to
escape. This method of escape was never observed at night, but is probably is used in
emergencies when the animal is hard pressed and far from a burrow.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
