<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Figure 1 Text Description</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="fig1desch1">
  <h1 id="fig1desch1">Figure 1 Text Description</h1>
  <p>This description is identical to what exists within the <abbr>SVG</abbr> <code>&lt;title&gt;</code> and <code>&lt;desc&gt;</code> nodes for <a href="figure1.xhtml">Figure 2</a>. It is reproduced here in the event that a screen reader does not expose those elements to the reader.</p>
  <section id="fig1title" aria-labelledby="fig1titleh2">
    <h2 id="fig1titleh2"><abbr>SVG</abbr> Title</h2>
    <p>Figure 1, Range map for Tulare Kangaroo Rat.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="fig2desc" aria-labelledby="fig2desch2">
    <h2 id="fig2desch2"><abbr>SVG</abbr> Description</h2>
    <p>From the southern-most part of their range, the Tulare subspecies of the Heerman’s Kangaroo Rat is shown to range from near Bakersfield north along both the foothills of the Sierra Nevada range and the Coast Range including the valley floor between them to about Fresno. Other subspecies of Heerman’s Kangaroo Rat are shown to be present west of this range.</p>
    <p>North of Fresno, the Tulare Kangaroo Rat is shown to range north into a small portion of the Sierra Nevada range and continues up along the interior foothills of the Coast Range but is restricted in the valley to the area west of the San Joaquin River. The fork of their range that is restricted to the area west of the Sacramento River ends where range reaches the modesto area. Other subspecies of Heerman’s Kangaroo Rat are shown to inhabit the area between this fork and the coast-line, with no subspecies shown to be present on the San Francisco Penninsula.</p>
    <p>On the east side of the San Joaquin River a different subspecies of Heerman’s Kangaroo Rat is shown to range is shown to range north towards Oregon along the east side of the Sacramento River Valley, but absent from the Sacramento River Valley.</p>
    <p>North of the San Pablo Bay, a different subspecies of Heerman’s Kangaroo Rat is shown to range is shown to range north towards Oregon between the Coast Range and the west side of the Sacramento River Valley.</p>
    <p>The portion of the Heerman’s Kangaroo Rat range shown north of an imaginary line between the San Francisco Bay Area and Lake Tahoe is now considered to be a distinct species but was considered to be a subspecies of Heerman’s Kangaroo Rat at the time the canonical journal article was written.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>