<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Figure 2 Text Description</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="fig2desch1">
  <h1 id="fig2desch1">Figure 2 Text Description</h1>
  <p>This description is identical to what exists within the <abbr>SVG</abbr> <code>title</code> and <code>desc</code> nodes for <a href="figure2.xhtml">Figure 2</a>. It is reproduced here in the event that a screen reader does not expose those elements to the reader.</p>
  <section id="fig2title" aria-labelledby="fig2titleh2">
    <h2 id="fig2titleh2"><abbr>SVG</abbr> Title</h2>
    <p>Figure 2, Weight in grams relative to age in days data point plot.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="fig2desc" aria-labelledby="fig2desch2">
    <h2 id="fig2desch2"><abbr>SVG</abbr> Description</h2>
    <p>Graph showing the plot for the weight growth rate over the course of 77 days from birth in grams. At birth, the weight is just under 4 grams. Weight increases until about the 17th day at about 12 when it actually reduces by a small amount to just over 10 grams at about day 18. It then starts to climb again, reaching about 17 grams at about day 24 and then drops a little over the next few days to 15 grams on about day 27. After that drop, it rises first slowly for a few days and then much more rapidly through about day 42 at about 25 grams, and then continues to rise though not as rapidly through day 77 at about 43 grams. Data after day 77 is not shown in the graph.</p>
    <p>On the graph, weight in grams is shown along the vertical axis with a range between 0 and 44 grams and age in days is measured along the horizontal axis with a range from 0 to 77 days. The polyline for the weight is drawn with a continuous purple line.</p>
    <p>The graph should not be considered a source of precise accurately measured data points, the graph was traced from a scanned images of a printed graph that itself did not appear to have precision implied. It provides a good feel for the growth rates but this graph should not be considered a source data set.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>