<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Figure 3 Text Description</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="fig3desch1">
  <h1 id="fig3desch1">Figure 3 Text Description</h1>
  <p>This description is identical to what exists within the <abbr>SVG</abbr> <code>title</code> and <code>desc</code> nodes for <a href="figure3.xhtml">Figure 3</a>. It is reproduced here in the event that a screen reader does not expose those elements to the reader.</p>
  <section id="fig3title" aria-labelledby="fig3titleh2">
    <h2 id="fig3titleh2"><abbr>SVG</abbr> Title</h2>
    <p>Figure 3, Length in millimeters of tail, body, and hind foot relative to age in days data point plot.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="fig3desc" aria-labelledby="fig3desch2">
    <h2 id="fig3desch2"><abbr>SVG</abbr> Description</h2>
    <p>Graph showing three plots for the growth rates of the tail, body, and hind foot measured in millimeters over the course of 77 days from birth. At birth, the body has the longest length at about 33 millimeters, with the tail length at about 18 millimeters and the hind foot length at about 10 millimeters. At about 16 days, the tail long has caught up with the body length at about 58 millimeters. The two remain relatively close to each other in length but after at about the 27th day when both measure about 80 millimeters, the tail length decisively grows faster than the body length. At the 77th day, the tail length is at about 135 millimeters while the body length is at about 102 millimeters. The hind foot length initially grows somewhat rapidly, reaching about 30 millimeters at about day 17. After that, the growth rate of the hind foot decreases significantly with it being just under 40 millimeters at day 77.</p>
    <p>On the graph, length in millimeters is measured along the vertical axis with a range between 0 and 140 millimeters and age in days is measured along the horizontal axis with a range from 0 to 77 days. The polyline for the tail length is drawn with a continuous purple line. The polyline for the body length is drawn with a broken-dashed red line. The polyline for the hind foot length is drawn with a continuous brown line.</p>
    <p>The graph should not be considered a source of precise accurately measured data points, the graph was traced from a scanned images of a printed graph that itself did not appear to have precision implied. It provides a good feel for the growth rates but this graph should not be considered a source data set.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>