<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Figure 4 Text Description</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="fig4desch1">
  <h1 id="fig4desch1">Figure 4 Text Description</h1>
  <p>This description is identical to what exists within the <abbr>SVG</abbr> <code>title</code> and <code>desc</code> nodes for <a href="figure4.xhtml">Figure 4</a>. It is reproduced here in the event that a screen reader does not expose those elements to the reader.</p>
  <section id="fig4title" aria-labelledby="fig4titleh2">
    <h2 id="fig4titleh2"><abbr>SVG</abbr> Title</h2>
    <p>Figure 4, Growth rate of tail relative to body data point plot.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="fig4desc" aria-labelledby="fig4desch2">
    <h2 id="fig4desch2"><abbr>SVG</abbr> Description</h2>
    <p>Graph showing the plot of tail length relative to body length on a logarithmic scale. The graph has numerous points plotted and a straight linear regression line that demonstrates the points on the plate have a nearly linear relationship.</p>
    <p>The vertical axis has a logarithmic scale of the tail length in millimeters, ranging from about 1.25 to about 2.15. The horizontal axis has a logarithmic scale of the body length in millimeters, ranging from about 1.40 to about 2.05.</p>
    <p>The point are green circles and the linear regression line is purple.</p>
    <p>The graph should not be considered a source of precise accurately measured data points, the graph was traced from a scanned images of a printed graph that itself did not appear to have precision implied. It provides a good feel for the growth rates but this graph should not be considered a source data set.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>