<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Food and Storage</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="foodh1">
  <span id="page123b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="123b"/>
  <h1 id="foodh1">Food and Storage</h1>
  <p>Like other members of the genus, the Tulare kangaroo rat stores food within its
burrow. This food may be used during inclement weather, at other times when the animal
does not venture outside, and as a supplementary source of food in times of drouth
when the surface crop of seeds may be much less than normal.</p>
  <p>Rain and heavy fog apparently are the only meteorological conditions that confine
this rodent to its burrow. Since this rodent experiences mild winters and few days of
<span id="page124" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="124"/>
heavy fog, it normally feeds on the surface as long as ample food is available, and seldom
is it forced to subsist entirely on its underground stores. This offers an explanation of
why the underground food stores of <span class="taxon">tularensis</span> are small; the largest cache found in any
one burrow weighed 157 grams. Most burrows contained considerably less than this.
In contrast to this, <a href="litcited.xhtml#vorhies_and_taylor-1922">Vorhies and Taylor</a> (1922, <abbr>p.</abbr> 19) found that
<span class="taxon">Dipodomys spectabilis</span>
stored relatively large amounts of food; the largest lot, from New Mexico, weighed
5750 grams (12.67 <abbr>lbs.</abbr>). They also state (<abbr>pp.</abbr> 18-19) that <span class="taxon">spectabilis</span>, in southeastern
Arizona, at least, relies largely on stored materials, except during the actual harvesting
seasons (April or May, and September to November).</p>
  <p>The Tulare kangaroo rat stores food in pockets in the walls or in the blind ends of the
tunnels (<a href="plate1.xhtml#f" title="Jump to Plate 1f"><abbr>pl.</abbr> 1f</a>). Most of the stores in the Panoche area were from 4 to 20 inches below
the surface, but one store, containing 33 grams of <span class="taxon">Bromus rubens</span> seed, was about 29
inches below the surface in a pocket in the wall of a tunnel. The seeds in this chamber
were moist and somewhat moldy. Most other stores, usually located close to the surface,
were dry. There, greater circulation of drying air prevents molding. The nature
of the soil and rapid run-off in this area usually prevent the small amount of moisture
that ordinarily falls from penetrating deeply. Seeds of one kind generally are stored
together, but occasionally stores are of mixed seeds. <a href="litcited.xhtml#vorhies_and_taylor-1922">Vorhies and Taylor</a> (<abbr class="italic">loc. cit.</abbr>)
found a similar condition in regard to the food stores of <span class="taxon">Dipodomys spectabilis</span>.</p>
  <p>Dry seeds, green vegetation, and insects are eaten by tularensis. Of these three types
of food, dry seeds probably are most important, especially in the localities studied.
There, the seeds of the grasses <span class="taxon">Bromus rubens</span>, <span class="taxon">Bromus mollis</span> and <span class="taxon">Avena fatua</span> are used
most. The amount of seed harvested by this rodent is indicated by the stores within
its burrows. These stores do not constitute the total harvest, however, because many
seeds are eaten above ground.</p>
  <p>Green vegetation makes up a large part of the diet of this rat. Individuals were often
observed to cut and eat the green stems and leaves of filaree, grasses, and other plants.
Green vegetation is most plentiful during the winter and spring, but in some areas within
the range of this subspecies certain green plants are available throughout the year.
Bits of grass or other green vegetation often were found scattered about within the burrows,
but large quantities or concentrated &#8220;stores&#8221; of this type of material seldom were
found. Also, pieces of cut green vegetation often were found scattered along the surface
runways. Grass seeds, such as are found stored within the burrows, seldom were found
along the runways. This material is carried in the cheek pouches, and is seldom dropped.
Even if it were dropped, it probably would be picked up again on the next trip as these
rats seem to prefer seeds to green vegetation; they seldom waste seed material, whereas
often only a small portion of the green vegetation cut may be eaten.</p>
  <p>Judged from the amount and kind of food found inside the burrows and the amount
and kind observed to be eaten outside, approximately 75 per cent of all plant food of
this rodent consists of grasses and 25 per cent of forbs.</p>
  <p>Insects probably constitute an important part of the diet of this rodent. Several
rats in the wild were seen to capture insects at night. Caged specimens also captured
and ate moths and beetles placed in their cages. Generally the head was the part of
the insect first consumed, and often this was the only part eaten. Insects observed to
be eaten by wild kangaroo rats were all of medium or large size and included moths,
beetles, grasshoppers, and Jerusalem crickets.</p>
  <p>An attempt was made to learn which kinds of plants near the rats’ burrows were used
as food. Specimens were collected of each kind of plant growing within a fifty-foot
radius of a main burrow. The burrow was then excavated and plant material found
within the burrow was identified. It was thus possible to learn which of the available
plants had been utilized. Thirty-one species of plants were found growing around 17
main burrows excavated, remains of 21 of which (see <a href="table1.xhtml" title="Jump to Table 1">table 1</a> and <a href="table2.xhtml" title="Jump to Table 2">table 2</a>) were found in the
burrows.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html> 
