<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="introduction" role="doc-introduction" aria-label="Introduction">
  <span id="page117">Page 117</span>
  <p>The Tulare kangaroo rat lives in the San Joaquin Valley of California, which
is from 40 to 70 miles wide and extends for about 250 miles north and south
between the Sierra Nevada on the east and the Coast Range on the west.
The geographic range extends latitudinally for 200 miles from a point about
20 miles south of Bakersfield, Kern County, northward to the vicinity of
Raymond, Madera County, on the east, and to near Tracy, San Joaquin
County, on the western side of the valley (fig. 1). Altitudinally it ranges
from about 100 feet above sea level on the floor of the valley to nearly 4000
feet in the Coast Range. The lower part of this range is chiefly grassland
and lies in the Lower Sonoran Life-zone, as indicated by the presence of
Fremont cottonwood (<span class="taxon">Populus fremontii</span>), iodine bush (<span class="taxon">Allenrolfea occidentalis</span>),
and the San Joaquin cottontail (<span class="taxon">Sylvilagus audubonii vallicola</span>). The
upper part extends into the Upper Sonoran Life-zone where live oak (<span class="taxon">Quercus wislizenii</span>),
scrub oak (<span class="taxon">Quercus dumosa</span>), digger pine (<span class="taxon">Pinus sabiniana</span>) and
the brush rabbit (<span class="taxon">Sylvilagus bachmani</span>) are found. The Tulare kangaroo rat
ranges to a higher altitude in the inner Coast Range than it does in the Sierra
Nevada, probably because the arid climatic conditions required by it extend
to a higher altitude there.</p>
  <p>The Tulare kangaroo rat has been described and figured by Grinnell (1922).
The myology of a related species is described by Howell (1932), and the
skeleton and adaptive features of this genus are dealt with by Hatt (1932).</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
