<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Works Cited</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="bibliography" role="doc-bibliography" aria-labelledby="litcitedh1">
  <span id="page147b">Page 147b</span>
  <h1 id="litcitedh1">Literature Cited</h1>
  <div role="list">
    <div id="allen-1895" role="listitem">
      <p epub:type="biblioentry" role="doc-biblioentry">
        <span class="author">Allen, J. A. <time datetime="1895">1895</time></span>.
        <span class="title">On a collection of mammals from Arizona and New Mexico, made by Mr. W. W. Price, with field notes by the collector</span>.
        <span class="journal">Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History</span>,
        <span class="details">volume 7, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 193&#8211;258, 17 figures</span>.
      </p>
    </div>
  </div>
  <dl>
    <dt>Allen, J. A. <time datetime="1895">1895</time></dt>
      <dd>On a collection of mammals from Arizona and New Mexico, made by Mr. W. W. Price, with field notes by the collector. Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History, volume 7, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 193&#8211;258, 17 figures.</dd>
    <dt id="bailey-1905">Bailey V. 1905</dt>
      <dd>Biological survey of Texas. North American Fauna, <abbr>no.</abbr> 25, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 1&#8211;222, 24 figures, 16 plates.</dd>
    <dt id="bailey-1931">Bailey V. 1931</dt>
      <dd>Mammals of New Mexico. North American Fauna, <abbr>no.</abbr> 53, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 1&#8211;412, 58 figures, 22 plates.</dd>
    <dt id="baird-1857">Baird, S. F. 1857</dt>
      <dd>General report upon the mammals of the several Pacific railroad routes. United States Pacific Rail Road Exploration and Survey, <abbr>no.</abbr> 8, part 1, <abbr>pp.</abbr> xxxiv + 764, 60 plates.</dd>
    <dt id="dale-1939">Dale, F. H. 1938</dt>
      <dd>Variability and environmental responses of the kangaroo rat, <span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni saxatilis</span>. American Midland Naturalist, volume 22, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 703&#8211;731, 1 figure.</dd>
    <dt id="grinnell-1919">Grinnell, J. 1919</dt>
      <dd>Four new kangaroo rats from west-central California. Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 32, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 203&#8211;205.</dd>
    <dt id="grinnell-1922">Grinnell, J. 1922</dt>
      <dd>A geographical study of the kangaroo rats of California. University of California Publications. Zoology, volume 24, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 1&#8211;124, 24 figures, plates 1&#8211;7.</dd>
    <dt id="grinnell-1932">Grinnell, J. 1932</dt>
      <dd>Habitat relations of the giant kangaroo rat. Journal of Mammalogy, volume 13, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 305&#8211;320, 1 figure.</dd>
    <dt id="hall-1928">Hall, E. R. 1928</dt>
      <dd>Note on the life history of the woodland deer mouse. Journal of Mammalogy, volume 9, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 255&#8211;256.</dd>
    <dt id="hatt-1932">Hatt, R. T. 1932</dt>
      <dd>Vertebral columns of ricochetal rodents. Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History, volume 63, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 599&#8211;738, 27 figures, plates 9&#8211;20.</dd>
    <dt id="howell-1932">Howell, A. B. 1932</dt>
      <dd>The saltatorial rodent <span class="taxon">Dipodomys</span>: the function and comparative anatomy of its muscular and osseus systems. Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, volume 67, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 377&#8211;536, 28 figures.</dd>
    <dt id="howell_and_gersh-1935">Howell, A. B. and Gersh, I. 1935</dt>
      <dd>Conservation of water by the rodent <span class="taxon">Dipodomys</span>. Journal of Mammalogy, volume 16 <abbr>pp.</abbr> 1&#8211;9.</dd>
    <dt id="huxley-1932">Huxley, J. S. 1932</dt>
      <dd>Problems of relative growth. Methuen, London. xix + 276, 104 figures, 1 plate.</dd>
  </dl>
  <span id="page148">Page 148</span>
  <dl>
    <dt id="lang-1925">Lang, H. 1925</dt>
      <dd>How squirrels and other rodents carry their young. Journal of Mammalogy, volume 6, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 18&#8211;24, 1 plate.</dd>
    <dt id="merriam-1904">Merriam, C. H. 1904</dt>
      <dd>New and little known kangaroo rats of the genus <span class="taxon">Perodipus</span>. Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 17, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 139&#8211;145.</dd>
    <dt id="nelson-1918">Nelson, E. W. 1918</dt>
      <dd>Smaller mammals of North America. National Geographic Magazine, volume 33, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 371&#8211;493, numerous figures and colored plates.</dd>
    <dt id="svihla-1930">Svihla, A. 1930</dt>
      <dd>Breeding habits and young of the red-backed mouse, <span class="taxon">Evotomys</span>. Papers of the Michigan Academy of Science, Arts and Letters, volume 9 (1929), <abbr>pp.</abbr> 485&#8211;490.</dd>
    <dt id="svihla-1932">Svihla, A. 1932</dt>
      <dd>A comparative life history study of the mice of the genus <span class="taxon">Peromyscus</span>. University of Michigan Museum of Zoology Miscellaneous Publications <abbr>no.</abbr> 24, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 1&#8211;39.</dd>
    <dt id="true-1886">True, F. W. 1886</dt>
      <dd>A new study of the genus <span class="taxon">Dipodomys</span>. Proceedings of the United States National Museum, volume 9, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 409&#8211;413.</dd>
    <dt id="vorhies_and_taylor-1922">Vorhies, C. T. and Taylor, W. P. 1922</dt>
      <dd>Life History of the kangaroo rat <span class="taxon">Dipodomys spectabilis spectabilis</span> Merriam. <abbr>U.S.</abbr> Department of Agriculture Bulletin, <abbr>no.</abbr> 1091, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 1&#8211;40, 3 figures, 9 plates.</dd>
  </dl>
  <p><em>Museum of Vertibrate Zoology, Berkeley, California.</em></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
