<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Locomotion</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head> 
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="locoh1">
  <span id="page133b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="133b"/> 
  <h1 id="locoh1">Locomotion</h1>
  <section id="method" aria-label="Method"> 
    <p><em>Method</em>.&#8212;The kangaroo rat moves about, principally, by a series of leaps with its
highly developed hind limbs. Its fore limbs are sometimes used for locomotion when it
moves only a short distance, as when gathering food scattered on the ground. Then
the fore limbs are placed on the ground to support the body, while the hind legs are
simultaneously brought forward; the tail is dragged loosely behind, or held only slightly
off the ground in this type of movement. Several such hops may be taken to move the
body forward four or five inches. In this type of progression, the entire sole of the hind
foot is placed on the ground at the conclusion of each hop, whereas, in the usual bipedal
method of hopping, only the toes come in contact with the ground.</p>
    <p>In moving leisurely, the animal ordinarily makes a series of quick hops, each about
six inches in length, which carries the body forward in a straight line. In this type of
locomotion, the tail is held off the ground, and is extended straight out behind, except
that the distal third is bent upward.</p>
    <p>When running rapidly, the bipedal method of locomotion is again used, but the
individual hops are much longer, and the tail is waved wildly about, probably to keep the
body balanced. In this type of locomotion, the body follows a zig-zag course, the direction
of movement changing somewhat with each hop. The kangaroo rat displays
remarkable alacrity in changing its direction of travel; it is able, at the end of one hop,
to change its direction of movement almost ninety degrees, an ability that must be of
definite advantage in eluding pursuers.</p>
    <p>The lengths of the individual hops vary considerably, but usually they are not more
than twenty-four inches; most are less than this. The longest hop measured, apparently
made while the animal was moving at top speed, measured twenty-eight inches.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="speed" aria-label="Speed">
    <p><em>Speed</em>.&#8212;A stop watch, registering in tenths of a second, was used to check the running
speed of kangaroo rats. They were released and allowed to run to a burrow. Usually,
they were started by a clap of the hands, or by attempting to recapture them. The
distance between the start and the finish was measured in feet, while the time consumed
was measured in seconds (<a href="table4.xhtml">table 4</a>). The top speeds attained in day and night checks
were about the same, being 16.4 and 17.6 feet per second, respectively; 17.6 feet per
<span id="page134" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="134"/>
second is equal to 12.0 miles an hour. In each instance top speed was attained when the
animal appeared to be thoroughly frightened. The speed of travel in ordinary foraging
activities varies considerably, but when the animal is moving leisurely it is about two
and one-half feet a second.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="endurance" aria-label="Endurance">
    <p><em>Endurance</em>.&#8211;Kangaroo rats exhibit endurance in the performance of their normal
activities. While foraging, and in harvesting and storing seeds, they move about almost
constantly, often for considerable periods of time, without showing signs of exhaustion.
Also, caged animals run leisurely on revolving wheels, apparently without becoming
exhausted. One caged animal was observed to keep a wheel revolving for twenty-f
out of thirty consecutive minutes. C. P. Richter (in
<a href="litcited.xhtml#howell_and_gersh-1935">Howell and Gersh, 1935, <abbr>p.</abbr> 2</a>)
found that the activity record of <span class="taxon">Dipodomys</span> is quite variable, but that individuals may
run on an exercise wheel as far as sixteen miles at night.</p>
    <p>Their endurance when they exert themselves, however, is low. After running at
top speed for fifty or seventy-five yards, when pursued, they show definite signs of
exhaustion. If they cannot locate a burrow in which to dart, they may take refuge by
hiding under a bush or, rarely, by &#8220;freezing.&#8221;</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
