<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Methods and Acknowledgements</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="introduction" role="doc-introduction" aria-labelledby="methodsh1">
  <span id="page117b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="117b"/>
  <h1 id="methodsh1">Methods and Acknowledgments</h1>
  <p>Night observation was carried on by use of a spotlight (automobile headlamp)
mounted on a tripod with a tilting and revolving top, and connected
to a six-volt storage battery. The light made the mammals extraordinarily
cautious when they first emerged from their burrows, but after a short time
they appeared to be oblivious to it.</p>
  <span id="page118b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="118b"/>
  <p>Burrows were excavated usually by first digging a straight trench beside
the burrow and to a depth slightly below that of the burrow at its deepest
<span id="page119" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="119"/>
part. From this trench the soil was excavated, maintaining a straight,
vertical wall. While this method often involved considerable digging that
did not help to expose the tunnels, it permitted an accurate plotting of the
features of the burrow encountered. Additional excavations were made by
merely digging and following the exposed tunnels, starting at the surface
entrances and working toward the central part of the burrow.</p>
  <p>To identify individuals fur was clipped from different areas on their backs
and sides. The exposed dark gray base of the clipped fur contrasted with
the surrounding brown hair of the back and sides, making it possible to identify
individuals as far away as fifteen feet. All individuals captured in the immediate
vicinity where night observations were made were given such identification
marks. Individuals were also marked by clipping certain toes of the
front and hind feet. Records were kept of the places where such individuals
were marked, so that extent of movement could be determined.</p>
  <p>Nine hundred hours were devoted to observation in the field at two localities,
namely, Corral Hollow, 9 miles southwest of Tracy, San Joaquin
County, and an area 4&#189; miles east and 1 mile north of Panoche, San Benito
County. Field work was conducted in all seasons at each locality. A total
of 214 hours on 34 nights was spent in detailed night observation of 37 kangaroo
rat burrows and their occupants.</p>
  <p>At Berkeley and Porterville, observations were made on animals housed
in collapsible cages, measuring 12 by 14 by 24 inches, made of metal lath.
This material was used because of its rigidity, and because its black color
tended to cut down reflection so the animals could be more easily observed.
Bottom trays for the cages were made of plywood. Each cage was provided
with sand, a water bottle and a ten-inch exercise wheel.</p>
  <p epub:type="acknowledgements">I am indebted to my associates at the California Museum of Vertebrate
Zoology for facilities and support given this study. I wish especially to acknowledge
with gratitude my indebtedness to Professor E. Raymond Hall,
the late Director, Professor Joseph Grinnell, and Dr. Jean M. Linsdale for
much helpful advice and criticism in connection with my study. Also I have
had other helpful suggestions from Professors Alden H. Miller and Charles L.
Camp. To my brother, Virgil A. Tappe, I am grateful for help in connection
with the field work.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
