<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Population Movements</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="movementsh1">
  <span id="page144c" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="144c"/>
  <h1 id="movementsh1">Population Movements</h1>
  <section id="emigration" aria-label="Emigration of young">
    <p><em>Emigration of young</em>.&#8212;At Corral Hollow, in the late summer of <time>1938</time>, a level area of
about four acres, situated among the low hills, for some unknown reason contained
many abandoned kangaroo rat burrows. Poor drainage might have been the cause, as
the area was situated in a pocket between the hills, and numerous outcroppings of rock
around the margin suggested that bedrock was near the surface. From the early part
of <time datetime="1938-09">September</time> until the <time datetime="1938-10-14">fourteenth of October</time>, traps were set in this area at weekly
<span id="page145" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="145"/>
intervals, but kangaroo rats were not caught. On <time datetime="1938-10-21">October 21</time>, ten traps in this area yielded
three half-grown kangaroo rats. Subsequent trapping in the area yielded nine more
immature rats, but no adults. It seems possible that the young rats were crowded from
the burrows in which they had been living, and finding no kangaroo rats in the level area
described, attempted to establish themselves in the abandoned burrows there.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="individual" aria-label="Extent of individual movements">
    <p><em>Extent of individual movements</em>.&#8212;Individual kangaroo rats, within their lifetime, may
migrate considerable distances. One hundred and twenty-nine individuals were
live-trapped, given identification marks, and released. In subsequent trapping over a
period of from one to two years, 49 were recaptured from one to 10 times. Most of the
recaptured individuals were taken within one-fourth mile of the point of original
capture, but one adult female, captured and marked on <time datetime="1938-02-15">February 15, 1938</time>, was recaptured
on <time datetime="1939-10-05">October 5, 1939</time>, approximately two-thirds of a mile from the place where first taken.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
