<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Parturition</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="parturitionh1">
  <span id="page135c" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="135c"/>
  <h1 id="parturitionh1">Parturition</h1>
  <p>Each of two pregnant females, captured in the field, gave birth in the laboratory to
a litter of young. The female taken on <time datetime="1938-04-02">April 2, 1938</time>, near Panoche appeared to be in
<span id="page136" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="136"/>
an advanced state of pregnancy. On the way to the laboratory, she prematurely gave
birth to two young and upon arrival there the head and shoulders of a third had emerged.
Apparently, it had remained for some time at this stage of parturition, for the exposed
skin of the young rat had dried. The female was weak, and was unable to support her
weight. This weakness was probably the cause of her inability to complete the birth of
the third young. As I assisted by slowly pulling upon the young, the female
contracted her abdomen every few seconds; after one minute of such pulling, the young
had completely emerged. After this, the female became more active and was able to
stand on her feet and hop slowly. Three hours later she gave birth, without aid, to a
fourth young, after which she became weaker again and soon died. Examination
revealed that she contained no further fetuses.</p>
  <p>The premature young at birth weighed
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">2.3,</span>
  <span role="listitem">2.8,</span>
  <span role="listitem">2.9 and</span>
  <span role="listitem">3.2</span>
</span>
grams. The two young
born en route to the laboratory, when found, were free of after birth, and the third young
was born without afterbirth. The fourth, however, was born with the amnion and a
part of the placenta attached. The premature young were without hair, except for the
vibrissae, which were about two millimeters in length and pale yellow in color. The
hind legs and tail were folded forward close to the body, while the front legs were free.
The hallux was present as a fleshy protuberance, much larger in proportion to the other
toes than in the adult. Three of the premature young died within five hours; the fourth
lived fourteen hours.</p>
  <p>On <time datetime="1938-04-14">April 14, 1939</time>, a pregnant female, captured at Corral Hollow, was taken to the
laboratory at Berkeley, where she was caged at <time datetime="09:30">9:30 <abbr>a.m.</abbr></time>
At <time datetime="14:30">2:30 p.m.</time> she gave birth
to the first young, at <time datetime="14:40">2:40</time> a second,
at <time datetime="17:50">5:50</time> a third, and at <time datetime="18:04">6:04</time> a fourth. She appeared
normal in every way, and showed no undue signs of nervousness, even when handled
immediately before and after giving birth to young; she ate oatmeal a few minutes
before giving birth to the first young. In constrast to this, Svihla
(<a href="litcited.xhtml#svihla-1930">1930, <abbr>p.</abbr> 487</a>) states
that female red-backed mice <span class="taxon">(Clethrionomys)</span> with newly born litters, are very nervous
when disturbed.</p>
  <p>The female retired to a nest box just prior to parturition, but offered no resistance
when picked up and placed outside the box, where the actual process of parturition could
be observed. In giving birth to the young, she stood hunched up on her hind feet, with
her fore feet held just off the ground. Parturition was accompanied by a series of groups
of abdominal contractions, each consisting of from six to eight contractions three seconds
long. After completing a group of contractions, she rested quietly for thirty or forty
seconds, when another group occurred. While the contractions were taking place, and
when the young was already partly emerged from the vagina, she reached underneath
and pulled at the young. When the young had completely emerged, she immediately
turned to it and smelled it, after which she picked it up and carried it into the nest. The
female then licked it, and fondled it with her front paws. Both young, of which the
parturition was observed, were treated in the same manner by the mother; both were
born head first.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
