<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>About Pipfrosch Press</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="piph1">
  <h1 id="piph1">About Pipfrosch Press</h1>
  <p>Pipfrosch Press is named after the original species description for the Northern Leopard Frog <span class="taxon">(Lithobates pipiens)</span> by Johann Christian Daniel von Schreber. A translation of that species description from the Fraktur script German to English is partially completed.</p>
  <p>Pipfrosch Press is a digital publication organization targeting citizen science but also is an <em>activity</em> organization targeting citizen science. It is my vision that Pipfrosch Press actively provides guided hikes on urban trails&#8212;readily accessibly by bus and that are paved for wheelchair access&#8212;for the benefit of the local communities, helping residents enjoy the beauty of the natural diversity around them in hopes that it help promote the preservation of this natural diversity to the greatest extent possible. I want a world of urban tree huggers.</p>
  <blockquote class="poem">
You may say I’m a dreamer<br />
But I’m not the only one<br />
I hope some day you’ll join us<br />
And the world will be as one<br />&#8212;Yoko Ono
  </blockquote>
  <p>Pipfrosch Press is not affiliated with <a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/" title="Internet Resource">iNaturalist</a> on a structural organization level however a goal of Pipfrosch Press is to encourage the use of that citizen science database for the benefit of increased data to both scientific researchers and to wildlife conservation efforts.</p>
  <p>For digital content publications, Pipfrosch Press will publish content primarily in the ePub format without financial cost to the consumer of the content.</p>
  <p>ePub reader software is freely available for a variety of computing platforms and works very well on the smaller screen sizes of so-called &#8216;smart&#8217; devices and the ePub format allows for easy integration of content accessibility features, allowing the publications of Pipfrosch Press to be enjoyed by many who are not able to adequately use the print or <abbr>PDF</abbr> formats due to disabilities. All content will comply with <abbr>WCAG</abbr> 2.1 Level AA success criteria with Level AAA success criteria met where it is not cost prohibitive to do so.</p>
  <p>Part of what Pipfrosch Press will publish includes academic journal articles that are of benefit to citizen science.</p>
  <p>For the most part, Pipfrosch Press will focus on papers that are either part of the Public Domain or are published under a Creative Commons license that specifically allows redistribution without payment due. When an article that is not part of the public domain or published with a Creative Commons license is of particular value to citizen science, we may attempt to get the permission needed to publish it.</p>
  <p>Original species descriptions and high quality natural history articles are examples of the type of articles likely to be of practical benefit to citizen science. On the other hand, something like a cladistic analysis of the <span class="taxon">pseudacris regilla</span> cryptic species complex is fascinating but is not likely to have practical application to citizen science and is not of particular interest for Pipfrosch Press ePub republication.</p>
  <p>All Pipfrosch Press academic article content will be expected to properly render (with the exception of <abbr>MathML</abbr>) on the <a href="https://us.kobobooks.com/products/kobo-clara-hd" title="Internet Resource">Kobo Clara <abbr>HD</abbr></a> reader and should properly render in any ePub 3.2 compliant reading device. The Kobo Clara <abbr>HD</abbr> was chosen as the reference hardware reader because is readily available to those with a lower income. Using it as a reference device also gives a high probability that the publications will properly render in the free Kobo software reader for Android and Apple mobile devices. The ePub is also tested in other readers, such as the <a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.flyersoft.moonreaderp" title="Internet Resource">Moon+ Reader for Android</a> and the Apple Books reader for Apple devices. We also test with the <a href="https://calibre-ebook.com/" title="Internet Resource">Calibre reader</a> available for desktop operating systems.</p>
  <p>Unfortunately, Amazon Kindle uses a proprietary digital publication format and does not provide a tool that adequately converts ePub to their proprietary format. Specifically, the conversion tool they do provide chokes on accessibility markup and it would be cost prohibite to Pipfrosch Press to try to maintain an accessible version of our publications for standard compliant ePub viewers and a second version for Amazon Kindle conversion. Proprietary formats are the antithesis of the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_access" title="Internet Resource">Open Access</a> philosophy that Pipfrosch Press and even some academic journals now embrace.</p>
  <section id="fg" aria-labelledb="fgh2">
    <h2 id="fgh2">Macro Biology Field Guide</h2>
    <p>The flagship product of Pipfrosch Press will be to leverage modern technology in how field guides are produced.</p>
    <p>Printed field guides tend to cover rather limited taxonomy groups and tend to have rather limited information about each species listed. Currently digital field guides, when available, are just digital versions of that print mentallity.</p>
    <p>It is time for a revolution in the production of field guides.</p>
    <p>Starting with Contra Costa County in California, Pipfrosch Press will publish digital field guides to everything that can be found in a particular region.</p>
    <p>Each taxon group will have a curator responsible for the quality of the species descriptions, but will be able to link to species accounts in other taxon groups and even create the species accounts in other taxon groups they want to link to in the event they do not already exist.</p>
    <p>When identifying a shrub, the species account may list what butterflies use it as a host plant. The reader can then read about that butterfly without needing a second field guide. The caterpillar may have a mutually beneficial relationship with a particular species of ant, the reader can then read about that ant species without needing to have a third field guide.</p>
    <p>As the quantity of printed pages are not a limiting factor, species descriptions can be properly researched accounts rather than just a brief summary.</p>
    <p>In addition to species accounts, the field guide will also include urban and wilderness areas within the region that are good places for the reader to visit when attempting to see a particular species. Furthermore, creative writing of an artistic nature rather than a scientific nature will also be included, helping the reader feel connected to wildlife in a context beyond the scope of science.</p>
    <p>This is a massive project, and it will never truly be finished, but I believe it is worth pursuing.</p>
    <p>Once the project is well under way and fully usable for reptiles, amphibians, birds, and mammals I will likely broaden it to include Alameda County. As it matures, field guides for other regions can be created as separate ePub publications.</p>
    <p>The field guide will be expected to work on eInk devices like the Kobo Clara <abbr>HD</abbr> but due to color photographs, it really is targeted at mid-sized Android and Apple tablets. It will be expected to work on &#8216;smart&#8217; phones as well.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>