<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Preface</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="preface" role="doc-preface" aria-labelledby="prefaceh1">
<h1 id="prefaceh1">Preface</h1>
<p>During the latter half of the <time>1980</time>s while camping in Briones Regional Park for a Boy Scout jamboree, at night I saw a small rodent I had never seen before. It quickly vanished down a hole under a bush.</p>

<p>When I got home after the jamboree, I opened my ‘Mammals of the San Francisco Bay Region’ field guide by William D. and Elizabeth Berry and I identified what I had seen as a Heermann Kangaroo Rat. Little did I know that the local subspecies, <span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni berkeleyensis</span>, had not been found since 1940 and was presumed extinct. If I had known, I would have reported my sighting so a park ranger could try and confirm the presence of the species there. The possibility exists of course that I saw something else, an awful of Mountain Lion sightings turn out to be bobcats, canines, or even house cats.</p>

<p>While working on the ‘Macro Organisms of Contra Costa County’ field guide for Pipfrosch Press, I wanted information on the natural history of the Berkeley Kangaroo Rat. There does not seem to much, but I did locate the paper reproduced here on its presumed (by me) closest relative, the Tulare Kangaroo Rat. This paper completely blew me away.</p>

<p>Donald T. Tappe was an exceptional natural who paid extreme attention detail in his research, his field observations, and his writing,</p>

<p>Th author quickly drew me and with every page I read, I wanted to read more.</p>

<p>If there is any hope of a remnant population of the Berkeley Kangaroo Rat still present, having persisted almost 80 years without a confirmed observation, I believe the odds of locating it will significantly increase if those searching for it read this paper.</p>

<p>The rat likely only surfaces at night and is likely easily spooked, and many of the locations where a population may persist that are open to the public generally close at sundown. We will probably not locate this species by a chance sighting, we will probably locate this species by understanding how to recognize evidence of the species such as burrows, runways, and dust baths.</p>

<p>When such evidence is found, it can be intelligently presented to the appropriate wildlife authorities so that confirmation of the species can hopefully be made.</p>

<p>Whether you are interested in the still extant Tulare Kangaroo Rat specifically or interested in searching for the presumed extinct Berkeley Kangaroo Rat, this paper is a <em>must read</em>.</p>

<p>This ePub is being published by Pipfrosch Press in the hopes that nature lovers who frequent the Mount Diablo foothills will gain a better understanding of what to look for, and the Berkeley Kangaroo Rat can be rediscovered.</p>

<p>If looking for this rat in a regional or state park, please be sure to follow all of rules of the park. Let the park rangers know of evidence you find so they can perform the confirmation with minimal impact to the habitat. Outside of regional or state parks, please contact the California Department of Fish and Wildlife.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>