<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Animal Relationships</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="relationshipsh1">
  <span id="page145b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="145b"/>
  <h1 id="relationshipsh1">Animal Relationships</h1>
  <p>In trapping on areas where the Tulare kangaroo rat is abundant, one seldom catches
any other kind of small mammal. At Panoche, I purposely trapped such an area, covering
about twenty acres, with the aim of catching any inhabitants other than kangaroo
rats. Traps were set under bushes, in thick grass, and at other places remote from
rat burrows and trails. Two hundred trap nights yielded only
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">5 <span class="taxon">Peromyscus maniculatus gambeli</span>,</span>
  <span role="listitem">2 <span class="taxon">Onychomys torridus tularensis</span>,</span>
  <span role="listitem">2 <span class="taxon">Perognathus inornatus</span>, and</span>
  <span role="listitem">18 <span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni tularensis</span>.</span>
</span>
Evidence gained from night observations carried on in places
thickly populated by kangaroo rats, also indicates that other small mammals are scarce
in such places.</p>
  <p>This relative scarcity of other small mammals probably was caused in part by the
competition offered by sheep and by kangaroo rats in utilizing the available forage.
Just after the seeds ripen, the kangaroo rats lay in small stores of food on which they can
draw, if necessary, in parts of the year when the surface food supply is depleted. In
some instances the combined effect of grazing sheep and the cropping of seeds by
kangaroo rats when they are building up their stores leaves the ground almost depleted of
vegetation. This, together with the fact that kangaroo rats feed more or less throughout
the year on what they can glean from any remaining vegetative cover to supplement their
already stored supply of food, leaves little in the way of plant food to be gathered by
other mammals. The scarcity of other small mammals in areas of sparse vegetation
where kangaroo rats are abundant probably is caused in part also by the lack of cover
suitable for protection from their enemies. Because kangaroo rats are able to run
quickly to their burrows when danger threatens, they are better able to exist where
vegetative cover is sparse than are some of the less agile mammals.</p>
  <p>Various animals, other than the rats themselves, use kangaroo rat burrows as places
of refuge or shelter. A pocket mouse, <span class="taxon">Perognathus inornatus</span>, was driven from one of the
31 burrows excavated. In the same locality, one kangaroo rat burrow which was under
observation, was taken over and enlarged by a ground squirrel, <span class="taxon">Citellus beecheyi</span>; the
squirrel enlarged and followed downward the tunnels leading to the two main entrances
of this burrow. The squirrel apparently took complete possession of the burrow, as
the rat was never seen again.</p>
  <p>
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">Horned toads <span class="taxon">(Phrynosoma blainvillii)</span>,</span>
  <span role="listitem">blue-bellied lizards <span class="taxon">(Sceloporus occidentalis)</span>,</span>
  <span role="listitem">brown-shouldered lizards <span class="taxon">(Uta stansburiana)</span>, and</span>
  <span role="listitem">gopher snakes <span class="taxon">(Pituophis catenifer)</span></span>
</span>
were commonly found within the burrows of this rat, and once a rattlesnake
<span class="taxon">(Crotalus viridis)</span>
was found in a store of grass seeds in the blind end of a tunnel.</p>
  <p>Various invertebrates were found in the burrows. These included
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">sowbugs,</span>
  <span role="listitem">millipeds,</span>
  <span role="listitem">centipedes,</span>
  <span role="listitem">scorpions,</span>
  <span role="listitem">spiders,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Jerusalem crickets,</span>
  <span role="listitem">beetles, and</span>
  <span role="listitem">ants.</span>
</span></p>
  <p>Owl pellet analysis shows that at Panoche the kangaroo rat, esecially <span class="taxon">tularensis</span>,
is preyed upon heavily by owls. A total of 103 owl pellets, probably for the most part
<span id="page146" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="146"/>
from barn and great horned owls, were analyzed, and the numbers of mammals
determined by counting the left lower jaws. The following animals were represented in these
103 pellets:
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Ammospermophilus nelsoni</span>, 1;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Thomomys bottae</span>, 8;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Perognathus inornatus</span>, 18;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni tularensis</span>, 55;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Dipodomys ingens</span>, 19;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Dipodomys nitratoides</span>, 15;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Reithrodontomys megalotis</span>, 3;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Peromyscus maniculatus gambeli</span>, 17;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Neotoma lepida</span>, 4;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Microtus californicus</span>, 3;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><span class="taxon">Mus musculus</span>, 6;</span>
  <span role="listitem">valley quail, 1;</span>
  <span role="listitem">other birds, 1;</span>
  <span role="listitem">insects, 18.</span>
</span></p>
  <p>Numerous coyote diggings about kangaroo rat burrows suggest that these mammals
prey upon kangaroo rats. In one instance, a kangaroo rat nest which had been built
under a rock had been torn out; tracks in the soft dirt about the burrow were made by a
coyote. Other enemies probably include the kit-fox, rattlesnake, and gopher snake.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
