<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Sanitation</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="sanitationh1">
  <span id="page131b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="131b"/>
  <h1 id="sanitationh1">Sanitation</h1>
  <p>The feces of the Tulare kangaroo rat are black, or dark brown. A pellet usually is
from five to seven millimeters long by two and one-half millimeters in diameter, and is
rounded or pointed at each end.</p>
  <p>The burrows of kangaroo rats always seemed odorless, and each trapped animal was
clean and sleek. Feces were scattered throughout the burrows and along the runways on
the surface; apparently, there are no special places of deposition. Feces are often mixed
with grass seeds, husks and loose soil, with all of which the rats plug unused burrows.
Approximately five per cent of one plug consisted of feces. Perhaps feces in the tunnels
are regularly disposed of by their incorporation in plugs which later are thrust out of
the burrows. Feces occasionally are found in the cheek pouches, along with seeds and
other material, but no evidence was found that they are regularly carried from the
burrow in this manner. When a kangaroo rat is busy stuffing his pouches, small pebbles
and sticks are often put in, probably accidentally, along with food. The occurrences of
feces in cheek pouches probably is to be accounted for in the same way.</p>
  <p>In some food-stores, a few scattered fecal pellets were present, but some stores were
free of foreign material of any kind. Nest chambers invariably contained more or less
fecal material. In one, the floor of a nest was covered with feces in all stages of
decomposition. This was an exception, for none of the other nests found had more than
a scattering on the floor, little more, in fact, than occurred along the floors of the tunnels.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
