<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Senses</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="sensesh1">
  <span id="page132b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="132b"/>
  <h1 id="sensesh1">Senses</h1>
  <section id="hearing" aria-label="Hearing">
    <p><em>Hearing</em>.&#8212;The sense of hearing seems to be well developed in the kangaroo rat. It
is probably this sense, together with the sense of sight, and possibly smell, that enables
it so quickly to detect the approach of an enemy. The external ear is small, as it often
is in a fossorial mammal, but the auditory bullae are large and probably compensate for
the lack of a large external ear.</p>
    <p>The one instance in which I had an excellent opportunity to judge the hearing
ability of this species under natural conditions, indicated that this sense is keen. With
the aid of a floodlight, an adult female was watched foraging. She hopped about in the
sparse cover of grass beside her den, about fifteen feet from the base of a low, broad,
densely leaved willow tree. She was sitting about twenty-four inches from an entrance,
eating, when, suddenly, she gave one leap and disappeared down the burrow. Approximately
one second later, silhouetted against the moonless sky, the dark form of a bird,
probably a barn owl, appeared over the top of the tree and about fifteen feet above the
spot where the rat had been. The fact that the kangaroo rat was alarmed before the
bird came into view makes one wonder if the rat heard the sound of the bird’s wings,
although no sound was audible to the observer, even when the bird passed almost directly
overhead. From the rate of speed at which the bird was cruising, it was estimated that
it was fully thirty feet distant when the rat took alarm.</p>
  </section>
  <span id="page133" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="133"/>
  <section id="sight" aria-label="Sight">
    <p><em>Sight</em>.&#8212;This rodent, at night, quickly detects any rapid movement within its field of
vision. When observing at night, it was necessary always to move slowly and deliberately
when the rodent was within thirty feet; otherwise, any quick movement would
often send it scurrying to its burrow. Beyond thirty feet, the rat paid less attention to
movement, and at seventy-five feet it rarely took alarm from this cause.</p>
  <p>Because relatively tall brush, weeds, and grass often obscure their view while
foraging, eyesight probably plays a minor part in guiding the fleeing rat to their burrows.
Sight may aid them where the vegetation is low enough to enable them to look above it
at the highest point of each jump. However, after arriving in the vicinity of the burrow,
the rat probably uses its eyesight to guide it into the actual entrance. Once when
James F. Ashley (<abbr>MS</abbr>, 1939) was attempting to capture a rat that was at large in a room,
it quickly dashed across the room, and struck a small circular, black spot on the side of
a cardboard box on the floor. The impact threw the rat back a foot or more, and dazed
it. Apparently, it mistook the black spot for an entrance to a burrow.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="smell" aria-label="Smell">
    <p><em>Smell</em>.&#8212;There is evidence that the sense of smell is highly developed in kangaroo rats.
Caged rats often bury seeds and dry food to a depth of one-half inch or more, to be dug
up and consumed at a later date. Such buried material probably is located through the
sense of smell, rather than by the rat’s remembering the exact spot where it was buried.
On several nights rolled oats were buried by the writer in a cage at a depth as much as
one inch. When placed in the cage, a kangaroo rat usually had dug up such buried food
by morning. No evidence was obtained to indicate that the sense of smell aids the rat
in detecting enemies.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
