<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Summary</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="conclusion" role="doc-conclusion" aria-labelledby="summaryh1">
  <span id="page146c" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="146c"/>
  <h1 id="summaryh1">Summary</h1>
  <ol>
    <li>The Tulare kangaroo rat is a nocturnal rodent inhabiting the floor of
the San Joaquin Valley and the surrounding foothills in central California.</li>
    <li>Each individual usually digs one main burrow in which it spends the
daylight hours and one or more subsidiary burrows that are used chiefly
as places of temporary refuge at night when danger threatens.</li>
    <li>Burrows are connected by a network of surface runways which radiate
outward from the various entrances.</li>
    <li>Food, consisting chiefly of seeds of grasses and of other plants, is stored
in the burrows.</li>
    <li>Although primarily a seed eater, this rodent in the winter and spring
consumes large amounts of green grass and other plants. It eats about 70
per cent of the species of plants which grow about its burrow; of the species
eaten, an estimated 75 per cent are grasses; 25 per cent are forbs.</li>
    <li>The breeding season extends from February to August, with the highest
percentage of pregnancy occurring in April. The number of embryos varies
from two to five, with an average of 3.7.</li>
    <li>When the moon is full, or near that stage, and shining brightly, adult
rats seldom forage on the surface. Young rats are less cautious, and may be
abroad at any time of night. These rodents are active above ground at all
seasons; in periods of inclement weather, they remain within their burrows.</li>
    <li>In order to keep their fur dry and sleek, kangaroo rats dust bathe in the
loose earth thrown out of their burrow entrances or in special &#8220;dust bowls&#8221;
situated on the surface near their burrows.</li>
    <li>Locomotion is principally by leaping with the highly developed hind
legs. When frightened, this rodent is able to attain a speed of as much as
12 miles an hour.</li>
    <li><span id="page147" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="147"/>At birth the young are hairless and almost helpless, the eyes and ears
are closed, and they weigh one-twentieth as much as adults. The eyes open
on the fifteenth and sixteenth days; the ears open on the sixteenth day.</li>
    <li>The mother transports the young either by picking them up by the
back with her mouth, supporting them with her fore feet, and carrying them
bodily, or by dragging them while they cling with their mouths to her nipples.</li>
    <li>Nests are constructed of grass stems, grass roots and husks of grass
seeds, usually in an enlarged pocket in the blind end of a tunnel. Most of
the nests found were from 12 to 30 inches below the surface of the ground;
one was on the surface beneath a large boulder.</li>
    <li>Burrows in sandy, easily worked soil have deeper tunnels than burrows
in rocky soil.</li>
    <li>The senses of hearing and sight are keen.</li>
    <li>Young rats normally do not venture from the burrows in which they
are born until they are about six weeks old.</li>
  </ol>
</section>
</body>
</html>
