<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>To Do List</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="todoh1">
  <h1 id="todoh1">To Do List</h1>
  <p>These are things I either <em>must</em> accomplish or <em>want</em> to accomplish.</p>
  <div role="navigation">
    <ul>
      <li><a href="#article">Article Copyright</a></li>
      <li><a href="#piplogo">Pipfrosch Logo</a></li>
      <li><a href="#phonetic">Phonetic Markup</a></li>
      <li><a href="#glossary">Glossary of Terms</a></li>
      <li><a href="#fig1">Figure 1 Redraw</a></li>
      <li><a href="#cover">Cover Art</a></li>
      <li><a href="#plates">Photographic Plates</a></li>
    </ul>
  </div>
  <section id="article" aria-labelledby="articleh2">
    <h2 id="articleh2">Article Copyright</h2>
    <p>Due to the absurd length of <abbr>U.S.</abbr> copyright, the canonical journal article (assuming copyright actually was renewed) will not enter the public domain until <time>2036</time>. There is a good chance I will not even be alive when that happens.</p>
    <p>I need to attempt to get proper legal permission to publish this work.</p>
    <p>The Journal of Mammalogy is currently an Open Access (abbreviated <abbr>OA</abbr>) publication, but only for articles published from <time>1996</time> to one year before present. Still, that the <a href="https://www.mammalsociety.org/" title="Internet Resource">American Society of Mammalogists</a> has taken the <abbr>OA</abbr> route for recent papers gives me hope that I may be able to work out something for this specific article.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="piplogo" aria-labelledby="piplogoh2">
    <h2 id="piplogoh2">Pipfrosch Logo</h2>
    <p>The logo I want to use for Pipfrosch Press needs to be properly licensed. That is not going to be cheap, but it will usable on everything Pipfrosch Press publishes.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="phonetic" aria-labelledby="phonetich2">
    <h2 id="phonetich2">Phonetic Markup</h2>
    <p>I need to finish the phonetic markup. This will require listening to as many ePub viewers as I can find that have <abbr>TTS</abbr> support so I can identify what is not correctly pronounced.</p>
    <p>I am currently in the process of setting up a database of words that need phonetic markup to make it easier to identify usage in the future and create a <abbr>PLS</abbr> lexicon that includes them automatically. I just found out that for the past 35 years, I have been pronouncing <span class="taxon">coerulea</span> wrong. How embarassing, how embarassing. In that particular case, think &#8216;Caeser&#8217; like the salad dressing and not &#8216;Kaiser&#8217; like the German Emporer.</p>
    <p>This is high priority even though very few ePub readers currently implement phonetic markup.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="glossary" aria-labelledby="glossaryh2">
    <h2 id="glossaryh2">Glossary of Terms</h2>
    <p>An accurate glossary needs to be provided for terms that someone with a 9th grade education might not understand.</p>
    <p>Pipfrosch Press is targeting citizen science, not post-graduate academic researchers.</p>
    <p>My <em>hope</em> is that there is a service Pipfrosch Press can license glossary content from, terms that have been professionally vetted, unlike the sometimes incorrect or incomplete definitions that can be found on an Internet search.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="fig1" aria-labelledby="fig1h2">
    <h2 id="fig1h2">Figure 1 Redraw</h2>
    <p>Figure 1 needs to be recreated. I have a plan in place that will make future creations of California-based range maps <em>much</em> easier.</p>
    <p>I consider this a high priority but not a rush priority if that makes sense.</p>
    <section id="udfig1" aria-labelledby="udfig1h3">
      <h3 id="udfig1h3">Updated Figure 1</h3>
      <p>The canonical journal article was written when the California Kangaroo Rat <span class="taxon">(Dipodomys californicus)</span> was still considered to be a subspecies of <span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni</span>.</p>
      <p>I would like to produce an updated Figure 1 based upon the range map provided by Douglas A. Kelt (<time datetime="1988-12-27">1988</time>) in &#8216;<a href="https://academic.oup.com/mspecies/issue/number/323" title="Internet Resource"><span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni</span></a>&#8217; (Mammalian Species 323:1&#8211;7).</p>
      <p>This would be provided in addition to Figure 1 rather than replacing it.</p>
      <p>Creating this would not take much time once I have the actual Figure 1 recreated.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="cover" aria-labelledby="coverh2">
    <h2 id="coverh2">Cover Art</h2>
    <p>The cover art is technically not a Tulare Kangaroo Rat, but it is in the public domain. I am partial to both the style and to work that is in the public domain, even though the propertions of the head and legs and feet are wrong.</p>
    <p>The original plate is from <time>1860</time> and is apparently from a report on an expedition to the Pacific Northwest written by a George Suckley and James G. Cooper. The plate is identified as <span class="taxon">Dipodomys agilis</span> but the species currently recognized by that name is restricted to Baja California and Southern California. The California Kangaroo Rat <span class="taxon">(Dipodomys californicus)</span> ranges into Oregon and is I suspect what the plate represents. That species was not described until <time>1890</time>, 30 years after the plate was created.</p>
    <p>If at all possible, I would like to identify the actual illustrator for the plate. That is medium priority, it is not essential to identify the artist for legal use, but I do like content creators to be properly credited.</p>
    <p>Also, if funds allow, it would be nice to have the illustration recreated to reflect correct proportions and the diagnostic characteristics of the Tulare Kangaroo Rat. This is low &#8216;would be nice&#8217; priority. I also want a rainbow unicorn.</p>
    <p>Finally, whether or not the illustration is updated, I <em>really</em> like the aged paper look, especially for a paper that is almost 80 years old. I would like an artist to extend that aged paper look so that it is the backdrop for the entire cover. Again, low &#8216;would be nice&#8217; priority.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="plates" aria-labelledby="platesh2">
    <h2 id="platesh2">Photographic Plates</h2>
    <p>The two photographic plates are low quality low resolution scans.</p>
    <p>Especially for Plate 1 but also for Plate 2, I would like to find an original print copy of the journal in good condition so I can photograph the plates using a <abbr>DSLR</abbr> mounted on a copy stand. This would result in much higher quality reproductions that could be restored with photoshop and then included in the ePub at a decent resolution, such as 768 pixels in width. I consider this to be a medium priority, it would greatly enhance the quality of the ePub but is not essential.</p>
    <p>While I do not feel comfortable <em>replacing</em> the photographs in article with modern photographs, with luck and several trips to the San Joaquin Valley, I (or others) may be able to obtain modern equivalent photographs that demonstrate the same image for
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem"><a href="plate1.xhtml#a">Plate 1a</a>,</span>
  <span role="listitem"><a href="plate1.xhtml#b">Plate 1b</a>,</span>
  <span role="listitem"><a href="plate1.xhtml#c">Plate 1c</a>, and</span>
  <span role="listitem"><a href="plate1.xhtml#d">Plate 1d</a> (sans shovel)</span>
</span>
as supplemental content. I do not think it is realistic to try to find equivalents for the other photographs from Plate 1.</p>
    <p>Photographs from Plate 2 would require the assistance of a lab breeding the species to replicate, and I do not even know where to find such a lab. It <em>might</em> be possible to obtain similar photographs from a zoo participating in breeding the endangered Morro Bay Kangaroo Rat <span class="taxon">(Dipodomys heermanni morroensis)</span> although the growth stages may differ.</p>
    <p>Replication of photographs from the plates I consider to be low &#8216;if opportunity presents itself&#8217; priority. Note that <a href="plate1.xhtml#f">Plate 1f</a> would require the destruction of a burrow to reproduce, which would not be a responsible action within the scope of citizen science.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>