<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Voice and Communication</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="voiceh1">
  <span id="page131c" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="131c"/>
  <h1 id="voiceh1">Voice and Communication</h1>
  <p>The Tulare kangaroo rat produces two types of sounds that possibly are used for
communication. A fluttering or rattling sound is occasionally made before the animal
first emerges from its burrow, or when it is disturbed by an intruder excavating its
burrow. The sound consists usually of one, but occasionally two, series of thumping
notes, each series lasting from one and one-half to two seconds. Where there are two
series, they are separated by an interval of about three seconds.</p>
  <p>I have most often heard this thumping while I was excavating burrows, a condition
<span id="page132" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="132"/>
under which the occupants were probably excited. Bailey
(<a href="litcited.xhtml#bailey-1905"><time>1905</time>, <abbr>p.</abbr> 148</a>) thinks that
the sound is used as a signal of alarm, call note, or challenge. This kangaroo rat
apparently does not produce this sound as frequently as some other species of the genus.
According to Vorhies and Taylor
(<a href="litcited.xhtml#vorhies_and_taylor-1922"><time>1922</time>, <abbr>p.</abbr> 12</a>),
<span class="taxon">Dipodomys spectabilis</span> invariably produces
the sound before its first emergence into the open, and often on its appearance after it
has been alarmed, although when the storage season has begun and the kangaroo rat is
carrying loads of grass heads, or other material, into its den, it regularly comes out without
preliminary signaling. <span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni tularensis</span> occasionally makes this
sound when first emerging from its burrow; it was never heard after the rat’s first emergence,
whether it has been alarmed or not. The animal never appeared sooner than
thirty seconds after producing the sound.</p>
  <p>Vorhies and Taylor
(<a href="litcited.xhtml#vorhies_and_taylor-1922"><abbr class="italic">op. cit.</abbr>, <abbr>p.</abbr> 11</a>)
credit Goldman with observing a kangaroo rat
<span class="taxon">(Dipodomys spectabilis)</span> produce this fluttering sound. The animal was standing with
its forefeet on the ground and its tail extended. When making the sound, its hind feet
were seen to vibrate. Several times I have heard my caged specimens produce this
sound and once, in dim light, he was able to observe one in the act. It, like the one
Goldman observed, stood with its forefeet on the ground, while its tail was extended in
a curve backward. Its hind feet vibrated. It appeared that the hind feet were
alternately lifted entirely from the ground, but this could not be verified.</p>
  <p>In all observations at night, no free-living kangaroo rat was heard to produce a vocal
sound. Price (<em>in</em> Allen, <a href="litcited.xhtml#allen-1895"><time>1895</time>, <abbr>p.</abbr> 213</a>)
states that kangaroo rats foraging in the moonlight
light at Willcox, Arizona, made low chuckles at intervals. The writer has occasionally
heard caged <span class="taxon">tularensis</span> make such sounds, but only when disturbed. Kangaroo rats,
when taken from live traps, occasionally produce a plaintive, low pitched, rattling
squeak, while struggling to escape from a person's grasp. A similar squeak often is
made by the female when placed with a caged male in the breeding season. A high
pitched squeak was once made by a female when a male, with whom she was temporarily
placed, bit her on the flank.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
