<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Water Requirements</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="waterh1">
  <span id="page126b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="126b"/>
  <h1 id="waterh1">Water Requirements</h1>
  <p>The amount of free water required by the kangaroo rat is, under normal conditions,
small. Because this rodent normally spends the daylight hours within the confines of
its cool, and often moist, burrow, it can exist with less water than would be necessary
for a diurnal species of the same size, other factors being equal.</p>
  <p>Where this animal occurs, the annual rainfall ranges from about 5 to 14 inches; most
of this is concentrated in the winter and spring. Generally, there is little precipitation
from May to October, inclusive. Kangaroo rats are not dependent on surface water
because often they live many miles from where there is any; neither are they dependent
on subsurface water, for the water table often is many feet below the bottom of the
deepest tunnel. Moisture in the food eaten, moisture in the soil, and dew are the available
sources of free water for a large part of the year. Nelson
(<a href="litcited.xhtml#nelson-1918"><time>1918</time>, <abbr>p.</abbr> 400</a>) states that
kangaroo rats (<span class="taxon">Dipodomys spectabilis</span>) do not drink water, but obtain the necessary
moisture through the digestive processes. Other authors, notably Howell and Gersh
(<a href="litcited.xhtml#howell_and_gersh-1935"><time>1935</time>, <abbr>pp.</abbr> 1&#8211;9</a>),
have commented upon the role played by metabolic water in kangaroo
rats and other heteromyids, and from their work it seems that, under certain conditions,
some members of this family depend upon metabolic water, together with that in the
air-dried foods which they eat, to satisfy their moisture requirements. Howell and
Gersh found that dry-fed kangaroo rats conserve the moisture in their excretory fluid
by resorption of the water in it by the ducts of the renal papillae, and by the walls of the
urinary bladder.</p>
  <p>Vorhies and Taylor
(<a href="litcited.xhtml#vorhies_and_taylor-1922"><abbr class="italic">op. cit.</abbr>, <abbr>p.</abbr> 25</a>)
found that in the laboratory,
<span class="taxon">Dipodomys spectabilis</span>
ordinarily showed an aversion to water. <span class="taxon">Dipodomys heermanni tularensi</span> usually
showed a similar aversion, but they would drink water under certain conditions; animals
caged for two weeks without water or moist food took water out of a pan. In doing so,
they stood on their hind feet, reached out over the water with their front feet, and
skimmed the surface with their paws as these were drawn toward their bodies. They
then licked the water from their paws as they rubbed them with a circular motion over
<span id="page127" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="127"/>
their mouths. Water bottles with tubes were regularly supplied, and the caged specimens
often licked the hanging drops of water from the tips of the tubes. Kangaroo
rats kept in a heated room, without water or succulent food, died within a few weeks.
For example, five animals kept in dry cages in a heated room without water, and fed only
dried wheat, corn and oats, died within three weeks, while others given a constant supply
of water lived as long as 18 months.</p>
  <p>Many times I have placed small jar-lids of water outside kangaroo rat burrows,
but only twice did individuals drink from them. This suggests that the animals
may occasionally drink from small puddles of rain water, but this was not observed.
Some moisture is probably obtained from seeds left stored underground; seeds found
deep in the burrow systems were usually damp, the husks being soft and flexible. In
winter and spring, considerable moisture is obtained also from succulent grass, leaves
and stems, which form a large part of the diet in these seasons. Insects furnish moisture
and probably are an important source of water in the dry summer months.</p>
  <p>Although these rats, under certain conditions, go to water to drink, they normally
show an aversion to getting their fur wet. Two or three drops of water sprinkled on the
nose of a caged rat as it was eating green grass caused it to jump backward three or four
inches, pause a second, and then roll vigorously. The animal then resumed its eating.
Again a few more drops were sprinkled on it, whereupon it ran to the opposite end of the
cage and started plowing up the loose sand in an almost frantic effort to dry itself. It
rolled two or three times, followed this with a vigorous kick of the hind feet which sent
the sand flying, and then rolled again. This cycle was repeated five times before the
animal resumed eating grass.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>